>> Steve Kinney: Two things we
haven't covered yet, which is, one,
this idea of subcollections.
We've talked about collections.
We've talked about subcollections.
We haven't really dealt with any of it.
We've just had this post and
the user, right?
And those are both top level collections.
But a collection can have
further collections beneath it.
And so again, if a post can
have a comment subcollection,
those comments are only
a subcollection of an individual post.
So you don't need to do things
like filtering of queries.
Even in a SQL database, you might have
a comments table that has a post ID and
you would have to do a join on that.
In this, you don't have to do that.
They are unique to every post.
It does make it a little problematic.
If you wanna search all of the comments or
something, that's not a thing, right?
You'd have to store them a second place or
something along those lines.
But it does mean that we can keep
nesting down different layers and
separate stuff out.
There's a bunch of advantages
to subcollections.
One is since queries are shallow,
if there's stuff you don't want, so
you might necessarily
have a list of posts for
maybe all of the full post content might
be a single document subcollection,
so that you can get the title and
metadata of all the posts, right?
But for the full body, that might be
in a document in the subcollection,
the comments, right?
If you don't wanna get
everything in the first pass,
moving it down to a subcollection
works really well.
For the list of all the posts, I also
don't wanna get all of the comments,
perhaps, at that moment.
I only wanna fetch the comments
should they go to the given post.
The other thing that we're gonna do
is we have React router set up now.
It would be great if when
they go to a given URL,
we can fetch the post based on the URL,
right?
Because let's say this
application really grows and
it's got 60 million hot takes in it,
right?
We're not gonna load those all into React
state because that would be too much.
And we'd probably limit the query
to maybe the first 10 or 20, but
that doesn't mean that somebody
might share a link, right?
So we wanna be able to fetch
a post based on the URL.
So if someone does share a link, we can
go to Firestore, get just that document,
in a sense will also get the comments.
So there's two things that we're
gonna do is having React router
inform what specific document to go get.
And then also,
we'll have comments as well,
and we'll be able to create comments and
then read them all as it goes on.
We'll actually subscribe
to those changes for
the individual document cuz
that individual document may or
may not be in that list of posts
that we're also subscribed to.
Right now, we're fetching all of them,
but if we did limit it to 10, and
it was the 12th,
it wouldn't be tracked, right?
So it makes sense that we would have
a separate abstraction for this.
So those are the two things
that we're gonna do, and
it's gonna be not dissimilar from
the user profile component that we made.
We're gonna break it out into computer
properties, because we're gonna need to
hold onto the comments ref to both to get
the comments and to post new comments.
We're gonna build the comments ref based
off the post ref, so on and so forth.
So it will be slightly similar, but
a different take what we
do with the user profile.
This time, we're not doing storage,
we're letting the route inform which
one to go get, so on and so forth.
So let’s get into it.
I do have a problem, which is I have
a component called Posts and Post, and
I don’t really know what to call this one.
I’m gonna call it PostPage, PostView.
I wanna have strong opinions
on what we name this for.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] PageView.
>> Steve Kinney: Page, all right.
>> Speaker 2: Do it in Post Page.
>> Steve Kinney: I got a PostPage vote.
So we've got this PostPage.
>> Steve Kinney: Bring in React and we're
gonna make it a stateful component because
we're gonna have that comment field and,
yeah, input fields.
We're gonna bring in that Post component
that we're using on the index page just to
show the post.
I don't really feel like
rewriting that right now.
So I'm gonna import Post, ./Post.
We have that Comments component.
That's been there the entire time.
>> Steve Kinney: ./Comments,
we will need Firestore at some point.
>> Steve Kinney: Nope.
>> Steve Kinney: I feel like
I've accidentally taught that.
Now let's do the wrong thing,
so that's great.
And then we will also need that
utility function that we had before.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and so we'll say
class PostPage extends a Component.
>> Steve Kinney: And the state,
we'll have to go get the post, so
that will start out as null.
comments will start out as an empty array.
>> Steve Kinney: Start
out the render method.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
you have all that in place.
Now I want to hook it up
to the page that I want to
know what post I'm supposed to get.
Right now, this post is null,
cool, I wanna see a post.
I don't know which one get.
That ideally would be informed by the URL.
So let's start with this get so
we can get to this page, and
then we'll deal with
the next step from there.
So in react-router,
we can go say posts/:id,
and this'll be a dynamic segment.
This'll be the ID of
the post we should go get.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll say PostPage.
No, I don't think I exported it yet.
export default PostPage,
all right, very cool.
>> Steve Kinney: There we go.
Let's actually just take that for
a spin as it is now.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's give
ourselves a link from a given post,
>> Steve Kinney: To that PostPage.
So we'll go ahead and
say import Link from react-router-dom.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll say the h3,
the title, we'll say that is the Link now,
>> Steve Kinney: to,
>> Steve Kinney: /posts,
>> Steve Kinney: id.
>> Steve Kinney: So
now all these are links.
Let's go click on this one and
you see we're on a post page.